ORDER OF PLAY:
	A game is played over a number of ROUNDS.
	Each round is made up of one or more TURNS.
	Each turn consists of the four phases below.

	A round ends only when a player has seized the initiative and the
	following turn has been played.

	1. PLANNING PHASE
		   a. Non-initiative player may play one card face down
		   b. Initiative player may play one card face down
		   c. Non-initiative player reveals, and declares Orders,
			  Reinforcements, or Event
		   d. Initiative player does the same

	2. ISSUE ORDERS PHASE
		   Players alternate placing order markers face down.
		   The initiative player chooses who places first.
		   Each player places 2 orders (plus any gained from a card).
		   At least one order must be RECON.

	3. EXECUTE ORDERS PHASE
	   Orders are revealed and executed by type.
	   For each type, the initiative player chooses who resolves first.
		   a. Recon
		   b. Forced March In / Forced March Out
		   c. Move In / Move Out
		   d. Withdraw
		   e. Fortify Area
		   f. Battles
		   g. Occupation and Capacity
		   h. Non-Combat Movement
		   i. Reorganize

	   EACH BATTLE:
		   1. Check for Unoccupied
		   2. Battle Cards
		   3. Combat Modifier Cards
		   4. Determine Combat Values
		   5. Modify Losses
		   6. Determine Winner
		   7. Take Losses
		   8. Check for Great Victory
		   9. Defender Retreat

	4. UPKEEP PHASE
	   CHECK FOR LAST TURN
	   If the initiative marker shows its LAST TURN side, flip it back
	   and perform NEW ROUND. Otherwise perform SEIZE THE INITIATIVE.

	   NEW ROUND (the round ends)
		   a. Check End Game Conditions
		   b. Attrition
		   c. Fortify
		   d. Resolve Decays
		   e. Place Reinforcements
		   f. Draw Cards

	   SEIZE THE INITIATIVE (the round continues)
	   The player without the initiative may discard their hand to take
	   the initiative marker and flip it to LAST TURN. If they decline,
	   the player with the initiative may do the same.


SETUP:
	Each scenario will have it's own map and setup placement instructions that will modify the steps below, 
	any scenario rules will supersede those listed here.
	
	DETERMINE FACTIONS:
		Players may choose which of the scenarios's factions they will be playing, if players can't agree they may bid for the faction they would like to play.
		
		BIDDING:
			To perform a bid a player will offer an amount of SP - The first player to articulate a bid is considered to be the first bidder.
			The other player may then either accept this bid or offer a higher counter bid. This will continue until one player accepts their opponent's bid.
			Once accepted the player who won the bid may claim whatever was being bid over, the 'loser' of this bid will then take a number of units such that 
			their SP is equal to the SP bid and place them into their reinforcement zone revealed
	CONSTRUCT BAGS:
		begin by placing the listed amount of each color of unit tiles into the BRIGADE and DIVISION bags of the player of that color, 
		if the scenario does not specify instead place ALL of each players pieces in the appropriate bag (Division's into the DIVISION bag and brigades into the BRIGADE bag)
	
	PLACE STARTING UNITS:
		If the scenario lists any starting units, draw units from the appropriate bag and place them where instructed.
		
		NOTE: Make sure that only the player who will be controlling the unit sees what value the unit has unless the unit is instructed to be placed face up.
	GATHER RESOLVE TOKEN POOLS
		Consult the scenario and give each player the stated amount of RESOLVE tokens.
	CONSTRUCT PLAYER DECKS:
		Gather all of the player cards of each color requested by the scenario and shuffle them together to form each player's deck.
		If the scenario does not specify any cards instead gather all of the BASIC cards of each color and shuffle them together as each player's deck.
	DRAW STARTING HAND:
		Each player draws cards from the top of their deck until they have reached their hand size.
		
		NOTE: the default hand size is 6 cards but scenarios may change this, players may even have different hand sizes from each other.
	AWARD INITIATIVE:
		If the scenario specifies who has the initiative, give that player the initiative marker flipped to it's THE BATTLE CONTINUES side
		If the scenario does not specify players may bid to determine the player with the initiative.
		You are now ready to begin, starting with the PLANNING PHASE.

GENERAL RULES:
	GAINING RESOLVE:
		When instructed to gain an amount of RESOLVE, take that many RESOLVE tokens from your opponent - If they do not have enough RESOLVE to satisfy this
		instead take all of the RESOLVE they have then take a number of end of game VICTORY POINT tokens equal to the remaining amount needed.
		These will be scored like RESOLVE at the end of the game but do not suffer from resolve decay and can not be taken from you.
		
	HIDDEN INFORMATION
		All Unit strengths are hidden from the enemy until revealed (typically through engaging in combat or a recon order).
		Once a unit's strength is revealed it remains revealed until it is reorganized or is returned to a bag.
		
		A player may look at their own unit's strengths at any time.
		
GLOSSARY:		

	Adjacent — Two spaces joined by a single connection path.

	Attacker / Defender:
	 In a battle, the defender is the player with any units in the space in which the combat is being conducted, the attacker is the player with only units on connections leading into the space.

	Brigade:
		The lesser of the two unit types. A brigade cannot be reduced; casualties ELIMINATE it outright, absorbing HITS equal to its strength. 
		ELIMINATED brigades return to the BRIGADE BAG.

	Capacity:
		The maximum number of units that may occupy a space once all movement, combat, and retreats have resolved: typically 4. 
		Any number of units may be involved in a battle, since attackers and excess defenders remain on their paths.

	City:
		A space representing a population center marked with a city icon. Occupied cities may be fortified for free during the upkeep.
		A city may have a RESOLVE VALUE, a REINFORCEMENT VALUE, both, or neither.

	Combat Value:
		A force's total strength in a battle, used to read the COMBAT STRENGTH CHART.

	Connection Path:
		A printed link joining two spaces. Every path has a specific type with it's own rules (railway, a road, or a trail).

	Deployment Zone:
		A space marked on the map as a player's entry point. Supply is traced back to a deployment zone, and reinforcements enter play there.

	Division:
		The greater of the two unit types. A HIT reduces a division: it returns to the DIVISION BAG and is replaced by a random unit tile drawn from the BRIGADE BAG.
		
	ELIMINATED:	
		Removed from play entirely and returned to its bag. Divisions are never eliminated by hits; they are reduced.
	
	Flank:
		Each connection path beyond the first from which attacking units enter a battle. Only the defender suffers the flank penalty.

	Forced March:
		Double movement allowance for the turn, at the cost of fighting at half strength (round down) in any battle that turn.

	Fortification Counter:
		A token marking a space as held. It absorbs losses, mitigates flanks, and keeps a space friendly when no units are present. A space may hold at most 3.
	
	HIT:
		A unit of damage. Battles and attrition inflict hits; fortification counters absorb them. 
				
		A division absorbs 1 hit by being reduced. 
				
		A brigade absorbs hits equal to its strength by being eliminated but must be fully eliminated if is suffers any hits.
		(EXAMPLE: a B[3] that suffers 1 HIT is fully ELIMINATED)
		

	Initiative Marker:
		A two-sided marker showing THE BATTLE CONTINUES or LAST TURN. Its holder decides effect resolution order throughout the turn.

	Order Marker:
		A face-down token placed on a space during the Issue Orders Phase, revealed and resolved during the Execute Orders Phase.

	Reinforcement Value:
		A number printed on a space or card determining how many unit tiles a player draws.
		
	Reinforcement Zone:
		An off-map holding zone for drawn units awaiting deployment. Units may be held here indefinitely.

	RESOLVE:
		A player's pool of transferable tokens representing success and will to fight. Gaining RESOLVE always means taking it from the opponent. 
		One is lost to decay each round. Ending a round while a player is out of RESOLVE ends the game.

	Round:
		A sequence of one or more turns, ending when NEW ROUND is performed. Reinforcements, fortification, card refills, attrition, and decay all occur once per round.

	Space:
		A circle printed on the map. Units occupy spaces; spaces are joined by connection paths.
		
		Friendly Spaces: 
			Spaces are considered friendly if they contain allied units or fortification counters.
			
		Enemy Spaces: 
			Spaces are considered enemy if they contain enemy units or fortification counters.
			
		Neutral Spaces:	
			Spaces are considered neutral if they are neither friendly nor enemy.	


	SP (Strength Point):
		The value printed on a unit, representing both its combat strength and for brigades how much damage it absorbs when ELIMINATED.

	RESOLVE VALUE: 
		A number printed on a space, equal to the RESOLVE gained when that space is fortified.

	Supply / IN SUPPLY:

		a unit is considered in supply if its own space, or a NON-ENEMY space connected to it by 1 link of any type, can trace a path of ROAD and/or 
		RAIL links to one of your deployment zones without passing through an enemy space (This path may not include TRAIL links).

	Turn:
		One pass through the four phases. Several turns make up a round.

	Unit / UNIT TILE:
		A single division or brigade. Strength is hidden from the opponent; a player may inspect their own at any time.

	Victory Point Token:
		A permanent token granted by specific effects, generically gained when a RESOLVE transfer exceeds the opponent's remaining pool.
		Immune to decay, cannot be taken, and does not count toward the end game check.

PLANNING PHASE: Play Cards
	At the beginning of each PLANNING Phase, players may play one
	card out of their hand. They may use this
	card to increase the number of orders that they may give that phase
	or to collect it's reinforcement value or to play its Historical Event. 

	NOTE: A player is not required to play a card.

		1. The non-initiative player chooses if he will play a card. If he
		chooses to play one, he plays it face down.
		2. Then the Initiative player does the same.
		3. The non-initiative player reveals his card and announces which
		section of the card he will use (reinforcements, orders, event, etc.
		4. Initiative player does the same.

		Once played, cards are placed in the discard pile, except those
		that specifically state that they are to be taken out of the game.
		If a player goes to draw a card and is unable to do so because
		his draw pile is empty, the player immediately shuffles his discard pile 
		to form a new draw deck.

	Each player can play his card to do one of the following:

		Increase Number of Orders
			Increase the Number of Orders they may issue during this PLANNING Phase 
			by an amount equal to the blue Orders Number printed in the top left 
			corner of their card (In addition to the base of 2 orders). 

		Collect Reinforcements:
			A player may draw units from their DIVISION and BRIGADE bags equal to 
			the reinforcement values printed on the bottom of the card (will indicate either DIVISION or BRIGADE) and place them in their reinforcement zone.
			These units will be placed at the end of the round
			
			EMPTY BAG: If the BRIGADE BAG or DIVISION BAG are empty, you are considered out of manpower, simply skip drawing a new unit tile 
				NOTE: In some cases this means a single casualty on a DIVISION will ELIMINATE it if there is no BRIGADE to replace it
					  This will be rare but symbolizes the systematic breakdowns caused by manpower shortages.
		Play an Event. 
			Cards with a Historical Event may
			be played to resolve the event described on the card.
			
			NOTE: Some cards abilities are played instead during a battle or 
			as a reaction to a specific condition, these cards will be of
			type REACTION or BATTLE, Only EVENTS can be played for their effect
			in the  Planning step.

ISSUE ORDERS PHASE:

	Place Order Markers:
		Players alternate placing order markers face down on spaces on the
		map. Each player may place 2 orders one of which must always be a ‘Recon’ order.
		The number of orders that may be placed can be increased by playing a card to
		increase orders at the beginning of the PLANNING phase.
		The player with initiative chooses which player places the first order. (Usually it is beneficial to choose their opponent.)

		ORDERS:
			RECON:
				This order may be placed on any space.
				When the ‘Recon’ order is executed, reveal all enemy units on the space.
				
				NOTE: one of your orders places each turn MUST be a recon order 
				(unless an event supersedes this requirement)
				this order may be used as a bluff and may be placed on any space.
				
			GENERAL MOVEMENT RULES:
				- A UNIT MAY NOT PARTICIPATE IN MORE THAN 1 MOVE ACTION A TURN
				- Units have a base move of 2 with the following restrictions (some units may have more movement):
					- Units may only move down a path if they have the full movement required to make that move
					
					- If a move would place a unit into the same space as an enemy unit or fortification; instead place that unit on the far end of the path they took into that space to signify it is attacking from that direction, 
						this will be dealt with in the BATTLE STEP of the EXECUTE ORDERS phase
					- If a move will result in more than 4 friendly units in a space, instead place them on the far end of the 
						path between those two spaces, indicating that they will participate in any defence if  necessary in that space
					- You may not use a path that contains enemy units unless your destination is the same as them (i.e are joining the same battle)
					- Each path type has it's own movement cost's that must be paid:
						- trails: 2 movement
						- roads and railways: 1 movement
					- Spaces connected to enemy units or fortifications always take 2 move to exit, regardless of link type.
						(for example traveling by railway from a space connected to an enemy space will cost 2 movement, even though a railroad normally costs 1)

					- Units on a path will only participate in combat of their target destination.
					(to remember what their destination is always make sure to place them on the far end of connections they traverse such that they are closest to the target)
			FORCED MARCH IN:
				- This order may be placed on any space that at least one friendly unit could possibly reach by performing a double move. 
				Units may be forced marched to the space from different directions. A unit may only execute a 
				‘Forced March To’ order if the target space is in its doubled movement range.
				
				FORCED MARCH RULES:
					Forced marched units receive double their normal movement allotment (typically this means 4),
					however they fight at half strength in any combat they participate in this turn.
					(Always round down)
			
			FORCED MARCH OUT:
				- This order must be placed on friendly units. 
				These units may force march out to different spaces.
				
				FORCED MARCH RULES:
					Forced marched units receive double their normal movement allotment,
					however they fight at half strength in any combat they participate in this turn.
					(Always round down)
		
			MOVE IN:
				This order may be placed on any space within at least
				one friendly unit’s movement range. A unit may only execute a ‘Move To’ 
				order if the target space is in its movement range. 
				
			MOVE OUT:
				This order must be placed on friendly
				unit(s). These units may move out to different spaces.
			
			WITHDRAW:
				This order must be placed on friendly
				unit(s) and is carried out only if enemy units would initiate combat in the space.
				Friendly units in the space collectively suffer 1 HIT and perform a FORCED MARCH OUT order.
				
				Any units still remaining in the space participate in the combat at half strength (due to the forced move order).
				
			FORTIFY AREA:
				This order must be placed on friendly unit(s).
				Place 2 fortification tokens on this space. A space can not exceed 3 fortification tokens.
				
				FORTIFICATION TOKENS:
					Ignores the loss of 1SP
				
				
			NON COMBAT MOVEMENT:
				This order must be placed on an space containing a friendly unit that is in supply.  
				Each unit on that space may immediately perform a forced march out of action with the additional rules that 
					you may ignore movement costs when moving between two spaces linked by railroad
					you may not move units into contact with the enemy 
					you may not exceed the capacity of a space after this movement is resolved.
				
			REORGANIZE:
				This order must be placed on space containing friendly unit(s).
				When executed any one unit in the space may be removed and replaced with a
				random unit from the DIVISION BAG.
				
				NOTE: if this space is engaged in combat it will suffer a -2 SP penalty 
				
Execute Orders Phase:
	
	
	Orders are revealed and executed consecutively with both player revealing all of their orders of the currently resolving type at the same time,
	then one player executing all of their orders of that type before the other player does the same. 
	
	The player with initiative decides which player reveals and executes each type of order first.
	NOTE: This is a legitimate choice based on the board state - the initiative player may want to first see what the enemy is doing OR may want to move first 
	claiming territories or bogging down enemy forces before they can act.
	
	• The ‘Recon’ order is revealed and executed by one player,
	then the other.
	
	• Then All ‘Forced March To’ and ‘Forced March Out’ orders are
	revealed and executed in any order by one player, then the other.
	
	
	• Then all ‘Move To’ and ‘Move Out’ orders are revealed and
	executed in any order by one player, then the other.
	
	• Then all ‘Withdraw’ orders are revealed and executed by one
	player, then the other.
	
	• Reveal and execute any FORTIFY AREA orders.
	
	•Then resolve Battles.
	
		RESOLVING BATTLES:
		Battles will be resolved in the order of the initiative player's choosing but the order cannot change once battles have begun resolving..
		Each player begins a battle by playing an optional Battle Event card if they choose to,
		then each player must play a mandatory Combat Modifier card.
		1. Check for Unoccupied:
			- If the space of the battle has no defending units, immediately skip to the retreat step with the defending player as the loser.
		2. Battle Card: At the beginning of each battle, a player may play a
		single Battle Card from his hand for its Battle effect. The text on the
		card describes how the battle will be influenced. The attacker decides
		if he will play a card first, followed by the defender. They both place
		their cards face down in front of them and reveal them simultaneously.
		
		3. Combat Modifier Card: Each player participating in the battle
		must play a card that will modify their Combat Value. Players either
		play a card that is blindly drawn from their deck or a card from their
		hand. Players increase their force’s Combat Value by the red Combat
		Modifier number listed in the top right corner of the card. The attacker
		decides which card he will play first, followed by the defender. Both
		players then reveal the cards simultaneously.
		
		A Combat card played from a player’s hand has its
		listed combat modifier value increased by one.
		
		
		4. Both players now reveal their units, Battle Cards, Combat
		Modifier cards, and any Orders they have issued to this space. 
		
		They determine their Combat Value by summing:
		
		+ The Strength Points (SPs) of all of their units in the battle.
		(Forced Marched fight at 1/2 strength - round down.)
		+ The combat modifier from the played or drawn Combat card.
		- The Defender loses 2SP Per REORGANIZE order in this space. 
		- The Defender loses 2SP Per Unmitigated Flank.
			- A flank is achieved for each path beyond the first attacking units are entering the battle from.
			- Mitigate 1 flank for each friendly fortification token in the space.
		A player finds his Combat Value on the top row of the COMBAT STRENGTH Chart and find their hits inflicted.
		
		COMBAT STRENGTH CHART
		Combat Value	≤2		3–5		6–9		10–14	15–20	21–27	28+
		
		HITS        	 0		 1		 2		  3	      4	      5	     6
		Inflicted
		
		5. Players modify their HITS suffered for:
			• A Defender occupying a space with a fortification token suffers 1 less HIT per fortification token but must remove one of those tokens for each HIT prevented.
			• Any played Battle Card effects.
			• Any Reaction Cards they wish to play at this time.
		
		6. Determine Winner
			The side, which suffers the most HITS, loses the battle. If there is a draw, the attacker loses the battle.
		
		7. Players simultaneously assing HITS to their units.
		
			ASSIGNING HITS:
			
			First a player must reduce their DIVISIONS starting with their highest strength, each reduced absorbs 1 HIT.
				To reduce a division:
					- Draw a random unit from the BRIGADE BAG and replace the division with it, returning the original division to the DIVISION BAG 
					- this absorbs 1 HIT.
			If after reducing all available DIVISIONS a player has HITS remaining they must then begin ELIMINATING BRIGADES of their choice until their casualties suffered 
			meet or exceed their HITS suffered.
			
				To ELIMINATE a brigade:
					- ELIMINATE the brigade, returning it to the brigade bag.
					- this absorbs HITS equal to the brigades strength.

			If a player finds they cannot pay for their HITS exactly they must ELIMINATE
			BRIGADES units until the HITS are exceeded.
			
				- EXAMPLE: A player has a force of consisting of D[4] D[3] B[2] and suffers 3 HITS. First they must reduce both of the DIVISIONS and draw BRIGADE
				replacements. In this case they draw a 3 and a 2, leaving them with  a force of B[3], B[2], B[2] and 1 HIT remaining. 
				Because they do not have a 1 value BRIGADE they must ELIMINATE one of their 2 value units.
				
		8. Check for Great Victory
		
			- IF the winner of the battle inflicted 4 or more HITS after all modifications, and the loser had at least 4 SP present when the battle began
			  the winner immediately gains 1 RESOLVE for achieving a GREAT VICTORY	
			  
		9. Defender Retreat (Do only if the defender lost the battle)
			- After casualties are inflicted on both sides, if the defender lost and has units remaining they must retreat their units out of the combat space
			- 	do this by placing all surviving units on paths leaving the space.
					- these paths must not contain enemy units and must not lead to enemy territories
					- if no such paths exist then ELIMINATE all of these units. If any units were ELIMINATED this way award the attacker 1 RESOLVE for a STRATEGIC VICTORY 
			- Then ELIMINATE any fortification tokens remaining in the space
			- Then the attacker may move up to 4 of its units into the space from linked paths.
									

		
		
	
	OCCUPATION AND CAPACITY:
		After every combat has been resolved, space capacity must be enforced
		Any units still remaining on a path may be moved into one of the connecting spaces as long as the destination space is not enemy 
		AND that space does not have 4 or more units.
		
		if for whatever reason a unit cannot be moved in this way, immediately ELIMINATE it.
		if any of your units were ELIMINATED this way award the opponent 1 RESOLVE for a STRATEGIC VICTORY.
		
	
	• Then all ‘Non Combat Move’ orders are revealed and executed by one
	player, then the other.
	
	• Then all ‘Reorganize’ orders are revealed and executed by
	one player, then the other.
	

UPKEEP PHASE:

	CHECK FOR LAST TURN: 
		If a player controls the initiative marker flipped to its LAST TURN side, flip it back to is normal side and perform the NEW ROUND STEP, otherwise perform the SEIZE THE INITIATIVE STEP.
	
	NEW ROUND:
		CHECK END GAME CONDITIONS:
			Check if any player has satisfied a specific end of scenarios requirement - if they have proceed to END OF GAME
			Then check if any player is out of RESOLVE, if they are - proceed to END OF GAME 
			
		ATTRITION:
			Find each space that contains friendly units and is out of supply, the units in that space immediately suffer 1 HIT per unit.
			(See REDUCING UNITS in casualties step of combat)
		
		For every unit ELIMINATED this way, yout opponent gains 1 RESOLVE.
			NOTE: Reducing a DIVISION is not ELIMINATING it.
	

		FORTIFY:
			Each Player places a fortification counter on every in supply city occupied by that player that currently lacks a fortification counter .
			Each player who does so gains RESOLVE equal to the RESOLVE value printed on that city.
			
		RESOLVE DECAYS:
			Each player must return one RESOLVE to the collection.
			(See RESOLVE in general rules)
	
		PLACE REINFORCEMENTS:
			Each player draws unit tiles from their bags equal to their total reinforcement values  
			(reinforce values of all friendly spaces)
			and places them in their reinforcement zone.
			
			The player may then consolidate any number of units - returning any 2 of them to the bag to draw from the DIVISION bag
			
			They may then place any of the units in their reinforcement zone spread  as they choose throughout 
			one or more of their deployment zones, making sure that none of those deployment zones exceeds it's capacity of 4 units.
			
			A player may choose to keep any undeployed units in their reinforcement zone
			
			
		DRAW CARDS:
			Each Player may discard any number of cards, then they may draw until they have 6 cards or their listed hand size if the scenario specifies.

	SEIZE THE INITIATIVE: 
		The player without the initiative may discard their hand to gain control of the initiative marker and flip it to its LAST TURN side, if they do not do so the player with the initiative may do the same.

END OF GAME:
	Sum each player's RESOLVE and VICTORY POINT tokens and consult the scenario's END OF GAME chart to determine outcome, adding any scenario specific modifiers to the total, making sure to note which players score should be subtracted from the other
	(typically the defender's score is subtracted from the attackers, making negative numbered outcomes favorable to the defence, and positive ones to the offence)